Flex is the Lex implementation
Bison is the GNU version of YACC

Lex - Tokenizer
Yacc - Parse Tree

Lex analyzes input and breaks it into tokens
Yacc interprets the tokens generated by lex code

Lex analyzes
Yacc interprests

Lex and YACC allows you to parse complex languages with ease. This is a great boon when you want to read a configuration file, or want to write a compiler for any langugae.

Lex is able to read arbitrary input, and determine what each part of input is - tokenizing.
YACC can parse input stream conisting of tokens with certain values. YACC has no idea of what input stream is, it needs preprocessed tokens.

Whenever Lex matches a target, it puts the text of the match in the character string 'yytext'. YACC in turn expects to find a value in the variable 'yylval'.

# Internals

- In the YACC file, you write your own main() function, which calls yyparse() at one point. The function yyparse() is created for you by YACC and ends up in y.tab.c
- yyparse() reads a stream of token/value pairs from yylex(), which needs to be supplied. You can code this function yourself, or have Lex do it for you
- yylex() as written by lex reads characters from a FILE * file pointer called yyin. If you do no set yyin, it defaults to standard input. It outputs to yyout, which if unset defaults to stdout. You can also modify yyin in the yywrap() function which is called at the end of the file. It allows you to open another file, and continue parsing. If this is the case, have it return 0. If you want to end parsing at this file, let it return 1
- each call to yylex() returns an interger value which represents a token type. This tells YACC what kind of token it has read. The token ay optionally have a value, which should be placed in the variable yylval
- by default yylval is of type int, but you can override that be re#defining YYSTYPE
- the lexer needs to be able to access yylval. In order to do so, it must be declared in the scope of lexer as an extern vaariable. You will find this extern declaration in the *.tab.h file

# Debugging

- http://www.cs.man.ac.uk/~pjj/cs2121/debug.html
- --debug and --verbose to YACC commandline
- C grammer heading:
    int yydebug = 1;

# Build
flex example4.l && bison -d example4.y && gcc lex.yy.c y.tab.c -o example4
flex example6.l && bison -d example6.y && gcc lex.yy.c y.tab.c -o example6
flex example7.l && bison -t -d example7.y && gcc lex.yy.c example7.tab.c -o example7

# References

- IBM: http://publib.boulder.ibm.com/infocenter/zvm/v5r4/index.jsp?topic=/com.ibm.zvm.v54.dmsp4/hcsp4b10120.htm
- Bison Manual: http://www.gnu.org/software/bison/manual/bison.html
- Flex Manual: http://flex.sourceforge.net/manual/
- Book: Bison-The Yacc-Compatible Parser Generator
- Book: Lex & Yacc
- Paper: Lex - A Lexical Analyzer Generator by M. E. Lesk and E. Schmidt
- Paper: Yet Another Compiler-Compiler by Stephen C. Johnson
- Lex & Yacc HOWTO: http://ds9a.nl/lex-yacc/cvs/lex-yacc-howto.html